=========
Copyright
=========

This document contains proprietary information, which is for exclusive
use of Rackspace and is not to be shared with personnel other than
Rackspace. This document, and any portion thereof, may not be copied,
reproduced, photocopied, stored electronically on a retrieval system, or
transmitted without the express written consent of the owner.

Rackspace does not warrant this document to be free of errors or
omissions. Rackspace reserves the right to make corrections, updates,
revisions, or changes to the information contained herein. Rackspace
does not warrant the material described herein to be free of patent
infringement.

Unless provided otherwise in writing BY RACKSPACE, the information and
programs described herein are provided “as is” without warranty of any
kind, including but not limited to the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event is
RACKSPACE, its officers, directors, or employees or affiliates of
RACKSPACE, their respective officers, directors, or employees liable
to any entity for any special, collateral, incidental, or consequential
damages, including without any limitation, for any lost profits or lost
savings, related or arising in any way from or out of the use or
inability to use the information or programs set forth herein, even if
it has been notified of the possibility of such damage by the purchaser
or any third party.


Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Do not **forward** or **copy** without written permission.

Copies of this document are restricted to the following names:

   - Rackspace, Inc.


Confidentiality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All information supplied to the customer for the purpose of this project is
to be considered Rackspace confidential.
