=====================================================
Why Blade Servers are Unsuitable for OpenStack Clouds
=====================================================

:Authors: - Jason Cannavale
          - Kevin Jackson
:Copyright: 2016 Rackspace US, Inc.

|

----

|

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As more and more businesses choose to adopt cloud technologies, IT
buyers, administrators and CTOs are increasingly faced with the
immediate challenge of selecting the right hardware for the underlying
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Employing the right infrastructure
components is critical to the implementation of a successful cloud
project. The following paper takes a look at the particular
combination of blade servers and OpenStack Clouds.

There are thousands of servers on the market today that are capable of
running virtualized workloads; spanning a wide range of prices and
specifications, improving the performance of all types of applications
in various ways.

Blade servers are one of the many choices available on the market
today. Blade servers are designed with as many as 16 blades contained
in a single chassis, sharing various components. Advantageously, blade
servers include more processing power in less rack space, simplifying
cabling, and reducing power consumption. This makes blade servers an
ideal candidate for data center consolidation, and optimization.

OpenStack is a set of open source software components primarily used
to provide IaaS. An OpenStack IaaS provides a standard set of APIs
used to control authentication, compute resources, storage, and
networking resources inside of a datacenter. These APIs provide an
abstraction layer to the underlying hardware resources so that
developers can build applications without having to work with IT to
request and procure additional hardware. To achieve this, OpenStack
depends on open standards to work with the underlying hardware and
other components. This is typically in the form of plug-ins that are
purpose built to interact with vendor hardware and open sourced into
the OpenStack project.

IaaS projects are also a way to optimize resource consumption and
performance, but with a different approach. IaaS is an agile method
for applications and developers, focusing on the end user and its
ability to allow for smarter and more economical approaches to
resource consumption. This paves the way for an optimized physical
space footprint usage.

Because of the particular design and approach of the blade server, we
do not recommend pairing with OpenStack Cloud as it is unsuitable. A
successful IaaS setup requires the understanding of developers and IT
buyers, administrators and CTOs that that hardware will fail. Failures
are handled in the software architecture, allowing your application to
continue operating somewhere else in the infrastructure. This differs
to the traditional virtualization approach, which requires additional
fail over servers to ensure that hardware failure is covered by the
infrastructure.

The following points focus on the key elements of reliability,
performance, and operability depicting the various possible pain- and
failure points that make blade servers such an unsuitable choice for
running infrastructure orchestration services like OpenStack.


Reliability
~~~~~~~~~~~

* A blade chassis is hardware defined with a closed API. This makes
  them inherently incompatible to OpenStack running software on
  commodity hardware. Stability and functionality of OpenStack is
  directly dependent on your blade server vendor.

* The closed API and internal hardware interfaces make it uncertain if
  upgrades will work without bringing your cloud environment down. The
  inherent nature of a blade chassis affects a larger number of
  components causing greater risk and complexity for such simple
  maintenance tasks.

* There are no common standards for networking within a blade chassis,
  allowing each vendor to offer various aggregation or virtual
  networking options to provide the connectivity required. In some
  scenarios, failure of virtual networking or backplanes within a
  chassis can have an adverse effect on your cloud environment,
  consequently reducing your OpenStack capacity significantly.

* Losing a single blade chassis could take a vast cross section of
  your application down even if you have architected your application
  to survive hardware failure, primarily because there is nowhere left
  for the application to move to.

* In a scenario where a blade chassis is lost due to hardware or power
  failure, depending on the size and span of the blade unit in
  question, it is possible that the entire infrastructure will be down
  until the hardware can be replaced. This means the application that
  your customers, end users, and stakeholders use will be offline as
  well.

* In a rack-mounted approach each rack-mounted server runs the same
  systems and services. However, in the case of hardware failure only
  the server that failed is impacted. This means that your application
  can continue to request new infrastructure resources across many
  hosts resulting in higher uptime and stakeholder satisfaction.


Performance
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Shared storage in OpenStack relies on an IP network, not a Fibre
  Channel SAN, so the vendor specific implementation of the shared
  networking becomes saturated. This leaves few options to alleviate
  this.

* East-to-west network throughput within a chassis is a concern. In a
  chassis where networks shared a common backplane, once this gets
  saturated, you are locked in to the chassis vendor upgrade path. You
  quickly come to realize the shared chassis network savings of a
  blade estate is not justified compared to traditional scale-out
  networking approach when it is time to upgrade.


Operability
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Troubleshooting requires extra resources for the internal components
  from the blade vendor, which mean longer time-to-resolution.

* The extra layer adds the requirements for a specialized team on top
  of any 24/7-support organization.

* The chassis you purchase forces lock-in to the blade servers that
  fit that chassis. End of life of blade chassis specification is a
  concern as it drastically reduces the longevity of the servers
  running OpenStack.

* OpenStack environments can make significant use of local hard disks.
  Many blade vendors force compromises in local disk options, where
  you may be forced to sacrifice compute capacity for disk packs. This
  alone makes blade servers a poor choice for Block and Object Storage
  services.


Conclusion
~~~~~~~~~~

The immediate challenge of selecting the right hardware for the
underlying IaaS is a difficult task; one must consider the
reliability, performance, and operability. Key take-away factors of
these three defining points are the down time associated with
upgrading, networking, and troubleshooting. In conclusion, blades
offer great opportunities for physical space consolidation. However,
this consolidation introduces numerous points of failure. These points
of failure make blades poor choice for running infrastructure
orchestration services like OpenStack. Reliability, performance, and
operability are key to any successful infrastructure deployment, and
it is imperative that the right choice is made for both your
employees, and your customers.
